Ragnarook is the Norse god of the chess board, a symbol of the alliance between the gods and the people. During the Viking Age he was worshipped in the Norse religion as the god of chess and the game of skuld (a variant of chess). Ragnarook is well known in the chess world for his play style of playing a fast and wild game that requires little skill to win. He is an archetype of the hyper-aggressive, strong, fast-paced, violent, and often physically abusive player. His playstyle is repetitive and brutal, often involving the use of pieces as weapons. Ragnarook is responsible for the stereotypical image of the Viking Age chess player being a muscular, bearded man wielding a long, long sword.

Ragnarook's signature move is the double pawn-spinning move, a move in which the pawns are positioned in a looping pattern. This is often considered the most complicated move in chess and has the potential for instant wins or losses, depending on what the opponent does after the move. It is also said that the other Gods forbid Ragnarook from playing this move, especially the double pawn-spinning double checkmate variation. His other trademark moves are his "windmill," where he spins the pawns around to come up with a new position, and his infamous "thunderclap," where he throws an uppercut (a move that can be used to break a board) before moving on. Ragnarook is also known for his aggressive play style in that he is likely to play all of his moves in a single turn.

Ragnarook is frequently depicted as a villain in Norse myths and sagas, especially in his role as a chess god. In the Icelandic sagas, he is often depicted as a cruel god who often forces his enemies to play the game of chess with him. This is what is known as the "Ragnarook Problem" as the game of chess among the Norse is regarded as a form of torture by the gods. In the sagas Ragnarook's son, Ragnarookrir, is often depicted as playing chess with him. Chess, it turns out, was frequently used as a form of torture by most of the gods in Norse mythology.

The most well-known chess game by Ragnarook is depicted in the Norwegian sagas, where the champion Magnus Carlsen is forced to play Ragnarook as punishment for world domination. In the game, Carlsen was forced to play against an empty board (the "Ragnarook board") while Ragnarook wielded a long-sword in hand. Carlsen was described as being "distraught" and "very frightened", and as having a hard time maintaining the game.  In the end, Carlsen won the game by exploiting the weaknesses of the Ragnarook board (namely having no enemy pieces), and having the courage to ask both "Where are your pieces?" and "Who are you again?" At the end of the game, Ragnarook "began to grow more and more furious" and his long-sword went flying. The sword was thought to have had some sort of an effect on Magnus's game. The Gods were so pleased to instead see Carlsen torture Ragnarook that they awarded Carlsen a piece of ice along with the prize of immortality.


